# Kresling Bellows Pattern Generators

This repository contains patterns for [coupled origami units](BellowsStrip.tex) and [completely uncoupled origami units](ModuleArray.tex).
Each file is ready to use.

| parameter | value | units |
| --- | --- | --- |
| n | 5 | - |
| l | 3.2 | cm |
| &phi;1 | - | degree |
| &phi;2 | - | degree |

## Coupled Origami Units
The single strip generated by this file fits diagonally on an A4 overhead transparency.
If you have a large sheet of flat material (mylar, paper, etc.), you can generate several strips in the same pass by adjusting the "foreach" loop on line 130. For example, to make all 5 strips for a complete bellows assembly at once, change line 130 to say

    \foreach \iterator in {1,...,5}{

After cutting the strips, can construct the bellows by attaching the tabs with two-sided tape.

### &Phi; Values
Our study focused exclusively on flat-foldable bellows, so &phi;2's value is given by &phi;1-180/n. &phi;1 is determined by line 155.
Each origami unit is made of a left-handed and a right-handed triangular strip. This code can generate irregular units, which will have different activation energies for the L vs R strips. The values given in line 155 also determine how many modules the strip will have. This particular example has four symmetric modules, at 75, 77, 79, and 81 degrees.

## Uncoupled Origami Units
Each star-shaped pattern generated by this file fits (mostly) on an A4 overhead transparency. The pattern generates a new page for each pattern. Select that page in your laser cutter's control software when you're ready to cut it.

Much like the fully coupled strips, the uncoupled units can be made with asymmetric L and R components, but this pattern defaults to symmetric values of &phi;1. Change this with lines 126 and 140.

Some laser cutters can etch the blue numbers in the same cutting pass. This really helps with organization during the fabrication step.
